README.md, before:

shark-bay-cazymes
==============================

Analysis of CAZyme distribution 84 metagenome-assembled genomes from a Shark Bay pustular mat

Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering)
    |                          and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `01-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    └── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
        ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
        │
        ├── config.py      <- Stores paths and variables used throughout the project
        │
        ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
        │   └── make_dataset.py
        │
        ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
        │   └── build_features.py
        │
        └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
            └── visualize.py
--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>

## About the data
The raw data for this project is the output of two annotation programs: dbCAN and SignalP v.5. 

One step of this project was manual annotation of data tables created from the raw data. In this workflow, data in `raw` is used to create sets of data tables stored in `interim`. These interim data tables were then manually annotated before a final processing step resulting in the finished dataset stored in `processed`. 

To create the interim data used for manual annotation, `cd` to the root directory and run `make interim_data`. To create the final dataset, run `make processed_data`. 

## The `src` package
I use a small package called `src` to store scripts and attributes used throughout the analysis. Make sure that you install `src` before trying to run anything - this can be done using `pip install .`. If you make any changes to src (for instance, to the `config.py` file), you should re-install it. Once installed, it acts like any other Python package and can be imported using `import src` or `import src.subpackage` where `subpackage` is `data` or another subpackage (directory). Subpackages need to be imported individually.

Commit message:

make interim bond and substrate tables

README.md, after:

shark-bay-cazymes
==============================

Analysis of CAZyme distribution 84 metagenome-assembled genomes from a Shark Bay pustular mat

Project Organization
------------

    ├── LICENSE
    ├── README.md          <- The top-level README for developers using this project.
    ├── data
    │   ├── external       <- Data from third party sources.
    │   ├── interim        <- Intermediate data that has been transformed.
    │   ├── processed      <- The final, canonical data sets.
    │   └── raw            <- The original, immutable data dump.
    │
    ├── notebooks          <- Jupyter notebooks. Naming convention is a number (for ordering)
    |                          and a short `-` delimited description, e.g.
    │                         `01-initial-data-exploration`.
    │
    ├── references         <- Data dictionaries, manuals, and all other explanatory materials.
    │
    ├── reports            <- Generated analysis as HTML, PDF, LaTeX, etc.
    │   └── figures        <- Generated graphics and figures to be used in reporting
    │
    ├── setup.py           <- makes project pip installable (pip install -e .) so src can be imported
    └── src                <- Source code for use in this project.
        ├── __init__.py    <- Makes src a Python module
        │
        ├── config.py      <- Stores paths and variables used throughout the project
        │
        ├── data           <- Scripts to download or generate data
        │   └── make_dataset.py
        │
        ├── features       <- Scripts to turn raw data into features for modeling
        │   └── build_features.py
        │
        └── visualization  <- Scripts to create exploratory and results oriented visualizations
            └── visualize.py
--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>

## About the data
The raw data for this project is the output of two annotation programs: dbCAN and SignalP v.5. 

One step of this project was manual annotation of data tables created from the raw data. In this workflow, data in `raw` is used to create sets of data tables stored in `interim`. These interim data tables were then manually annotated before a final processing step resulting in the finished dataset stored in `processed`. 

To create the interim data used for manual annotation, `cd` to the root directory and run `make interim_data`. To create the final dataset, run `make processed_data`. 

### Manually created or refined files
A significant step in this analysis was manual creation of tables mapping CAZyme activity to substrates and bond targets. These tables were refined multiple times throughout the analysis. While we do not document precisely each step of manual refinement in this repository, we do provide the final versions of the files (needed to reproduce our final data) and include code in `make_dataset.py` that creates the interim tables that were used as a basis for the creation of our manually refined tables. 

These files were manually refined or created mostly by hand
- 
- 


## The `src` package
I use a small package called `src` to store scripts and attributes used throughout the analysis. Make sure that you install `src` before trying to run anything - this can be done using `pip install .`. If you make any changes to src (for instance, to the `config.py` file), you should re-install it. Once installed, it acts like any other Python package and can be imported using `import src` or `import src.subpackage` where `subpackage` is `data` or another subpackage (directory). Subpackages need to be imported individually.
